---
title: "Luminance Distribution as a Determinant for Visual Freshness Perception: Evidence from Image Analysis of a Cabbage Leaf"
date: 2013-03-31T12:34:30-04:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/cabbage0h.jpg
categories:
  - Sensory Perception
tags:
  - Food Perception
  - Vegetable Freshness Perception
---

Freshness perception influences consumer behavior when selecting and purchasing fresh foods, 
such as vegetables and fruits. Although previous research has emphasized the importance of 
vision when assessing freshness, it remains unknown what specific visual cues control this perception. 
To investigate which optical parameters are involved in our freshness perception in vegetables, 
we took digital pictures of the freshness degradation process of cabbages in a controlled environment. 
Then, we randomly presented color and grayscale versions of those pictures to subjects who had to rate 
their perceived freshness using a visual analog scale. The results of the freshness perception for both 
versions of the stimuli were highly correlated proving that using luminance information alone suffices 
for an accurate estimation of freshness. Moreover, we digitally manipulated the original images only by 
modifying their luminance distribution and keeping intact their color information. When we presented the 
resulting images, using the same psycho-physical experimental setting, the subject’s results showed that 
the perceived freshness also changed concordantly with the changes of the luminance distribution. 
These results support the hypothesis that the freshness perception of vegetables is highly influenced by 
the luminance distribution present in that food texture. Furthermore, we propose a model using image and 
band-pass filter statistics that fitted our results. These findings not only can help design implementations 
of automatic non-invasive food freshness estimators for the food industry but also represent a way 
to understand cognitive quality measurements which can be related closely to human perception.

Highlights
- Luminance information suffices for freshness perception of cabbages. 
- Statistical luminance values are significantly correlated to freshness perception. 
- Modification of only luminance parameters modified the perception of freshness. 
- A model using band-pass filter of the luminance channel accounts for our results.

Arce-Lopera, C. A., Masuda, T., Kimura, A., Wada, Y., Okajima, K. (2013). 
Luminance Distribution as a Determinant for Visual Freshness Perception: 
Evidence from Image Analysis of a Cabbage Leaf. 
Food Quality and Preference, 27(2), 202-207

Check out the [Original Article][URL] 

[URL]:  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodqual.2012.03.005