---
title: "Effects of Background Reflectance and Illumination Level on the Estimated Freshness of Vegetables"
date: 2013-08-01T12:34:30-04:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/cabbage0h.jpg
categories:
  - Sensory Perception
tags:
  - Vegetable Freshness Perception
  - Food Perception

---

Luminance distribution information is a critical cue for estimating visual freshness of vegetables, such
as strawberries [1] and cabbages [2]. However, it remains unclear how robust is the
freshness estimation against environmental variation, such as variations of lighting and background
conditions. Therefore, we conducted an experiment to investigate the effect of several environmental
parameters on our visual estimation of fresh vegetables by controlling the image information. First, we
took calibrated pictures of fresh vegetables: cabbage, carrot and komatsuna (Japanese Mustard Spinach)
that gradually degraded in a controlled environment. Next, to investigate the effect of the luminance
contrast on freshness estimation, we created stimuli with several levels of luminance contrast between
the vegetable surface and the background by controlling their luminance level. As a result, we found
that the background reflectance do not affect visual freshness estimation. On the other hand, visual
freshness estimation depends on the absolute luminance levels of the vegetable surface but it saturates
over a certain illuminance. Those results suggest that visual freshness estimation is quite robust against
environmental variation except when the illuminance level is low. 

Okajima, K., Sakurai, Y., Arce-Lopera, C. A.  (2013). 
Effects of Background Reflectance and Illumination Level on the Estimated Freshness of Vegetables 
(vol. 42). Perception.

Check out the [Conference Proceedings][URL] 

[URL]:   https://journals.sagepub.com/toc/peca/42/1_suppl
[1]:  https://doi.org/10.1068/i0471
[2]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodqual.2012.03.005