---
title: "Effects of surface color on the estimated freshness of vegetables"
date: 2014-06-07T12:34:30-04:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/cabbage0h.jpg
categories:
  - Retail
tags:
  - Food Quality Perception

---
Luminance distribution information is a critical cue for estimating visual freshness of
vegetables, such as strawberries [1] and cabbages [2].
However, it remains unclear how color affects the freshness estimation of vegetables.
Therefore, we conducted two kinds of experiment. They were designed to investigate the
effect of the color of vegetables on our visual estimation of fresh vegetables by controlling
the image color information. We took calibrated pictures of fresh vegetables: cabbage,
carrot and komatsuna (Japanese Mustard Spinach) that gradually degraded in a controlled
environment. In Experiment 1, we created gray- scale stimuli of the vegetable surface with
the same luminance values as the original color images and derived results of freshness
estimation using monochromatic and chromatic stimuli. We found no difference between
the results, suggesting that the color does not add critical information for the visual
freshness estimation. Moreover, in Experiment 2, we created strange color stimuli of the
vegetable surface (e.g. yellow cabbage) with the same luminance values as the original
color images. The freshness estimation results showed that visual freshness estimation does
not depend on the color of the vegetable surface even when the color does not exist in
nature. In spite that color information is an important cue for identifying the type of
vegetable and for estimating the ripeness of vegetables, our results suggest that visual
freshness estimation is quite robust against color modification.

Okajima, K., Sakurai, Y., Arce-Lopera, C. A.  (2014). 
In AIC 2014 Interim Meeting "Color, culture and identity: past, present and future". (Ed.), 
Effects of surface color on the estimated freshness of vegetables 
(pp. 622-625). Oaxaca: www.aic-color.org/congr.htm

Check out the [Conference Proceedings][URL] 

[URL]:   https://www.aic-color.org/resources/Documents/aic2014proc.pdf
[1]:  https://doi.org/10.1068/i0471
[2]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodqual.2012.03.005