---
title: "Model of vegetable freshness perception using luminance cues"
date: 2015-03-01T12:34:30-04:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/Strawberry.png
categories:
  - Sensory Perception
tags:
  - Food Perception
---
Freshness perception is a quality discrimination process that influences our consumer choice and eating behavior, 
especially of highly perishable products such as vegetables. Previous research used photographic stimuli to 
investigate the relationship between luminance distribution and freshness perception for a cabbage leaf 
[1] and a strawberry [2]. In this study, the luminance and chromatic information of the freshness degradation 
process of four different vegetables (cabbage, strawberry, carrot and spinach) was recorded in a temperature, 
humidity and light controlled environment. However, instead of a camera, a 2D luminance and chromaticity analyzer 
(TOPCON UA1000) was chosen as the measurement equipment. Then, using a color management system to guarantee the 
exact reproduction of the recorded luminance and chromatic data of the real objects, a color and a grayscale 
version of the stimuli was created. Subsequently, those pictures were randomly presented to subjects who had to 
rate their perceived freshness using a visual analog scale. The achromatic results did not differ from the 
chromatic ones suggesting that luminance information is sufficient to enable an accurate estimation of vegetable 
freshness. Additionally, the original images were digitally manipulated only by modifying their luminance 
distribution and keeping their color information intact. When the resulting images were presented, using the 
same psychophysical experimental setting, the results showed that the perceived freshness also changed 
concordantly with the changes on the asymmetry of the luminance distribution. Finally, a model for vegetable 
freshness perception that utilizes only luminance cues is presented.

Arce-Lopera, C. A., Masuda, T., Kimura, A., Wada, Y., Okajima, K. (2015). 
Model of Vegetable Freshness Perception using Luminance Cues. 
Food Quality and Preference, 40 - Part B, 279-286

Check out the [Original Article][URL] 

[URL]:  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodqual.2014.06.010
[1]:  https://doi.org/10.1068/i0471
[2]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodqual.2012.03.005