---
title: "Universal Design for Enhancing Accessibility of the Visually Impaired in Touristic Environments"
date: 2019-06-24T12:34:30-05:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/novelHCI.jpg
categories:
  - System Development
tags:
  - Intelligent Environments
  - Novel Interfaces
  - Accessibility

---
Designing for accessibility and inclusion requires careful consideration of specific requirements. 
In particular, Universal Design promotes inclusion by enhancing access but without hindering the 
user experience for others. One of the principles of Universal Design is that the information must 
be perceptible, i.e. all given information must be presented using different sensory perceptual strategies. 
Here, different interaction design strategies were tested for a system that aimed at creating meaningful 
experiences for the visually impaired in a recreational environment. Volunteers with visual impairment 
participated in the evaluation of the system and were instructed to interact with the system using a mobile 
phone. Experimental results revealed that a combination of audio and tactile stimuli was the best combination 
to increase information recall. However, careful design of the tactile interaction must be met to avoid 
cognitive overload that could interfere with the experience.

Arce-Lopera, C. A., Jiménez, J., Montoya, C., Giraldo, J. (2019). 
Universal Design for Enhancing Accessibility of the Visually Impaired in Touristic Environments. 
(pp 514-521) Washington - USA. AHFE 2019. Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing Volume 955.

Check out the [Conference Proceedings][URL] 

[URL]:  https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-20227-9_48