---
title: "The Effect of Color Channel Representations on the Transferability of Convolutional Neural Networks"
date: 2019-04-24T12:34:30-05:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/novelHCI.jpg
categories:
  - System Development
tags:
  - Computer Vision

---
Image classification is one of the most important tasks in computer vision, since it can be used to retrieve, 
store, organize, and analyze digital images. In recent years, deep learning convolutional neural networks 
have been successfully used to classify images surpassing previous state of the art performances. 
Moreover, using transfer learning techniques, very complex models have been successfully utilized 
for other tasks different from the original task for which they were trained for. Here, the influence of the 
color representation of the input images was tested when using a transfer learning technique in three different 
well-known convolutional models. The experimental results showed that color representation in the CIE-L*a*b* 
color space gave reasonably good results compared to the RGB color format originally used during training. 
These results support the idea that the features learned can be transferred to new models with images using 
different color channels such as the CIE-L*a*b* space, and opens up new research questions as to the 
transferability of image representation in convolutional neural networks.

Diaz-Cely, J., Arce-Lopera, C. A., Mena, J.C., Quintero, L. (2019). 
The Effect of Color Channel Representations on the Transferability of Convolutional Neural Networks. 
(pp 27-38) Las Vegas- USA. 
Computer Vision Conference 2019. 
Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing Volume 943.

Check out the [Conference Proceedings][URL] 

[URL]:  https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-17795-9_3