---
title: "AR for Brand Recognition and Recall @CHI21"
date: 2021-05-09T12:34:30-05:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/retail.jpg
categories:
- System Development 
  
tags:
- Intelligent Environments
- Technology in Retail
---
# Augmented Reality Game for Brand Recognition and Recall

Augmented Reality (AR) technology offers the opportunity to change the customer experience in the retail context. 
For example, AR applications can be used as a bridge to close the gap between physical and online shops, mixing the 
best characteristics of both. Different researchers have measured the quality of the user's experience through AR. 
However, here we focused not only on user experience but also on the impact of AR on brand recall and recognition. 
We analyzed the impact on brand recall and recognition of an AR application by comparing three contexts: a traditional 
context where participants look at three products, a focused context where participants have only one product 
to look at, and a technology-enhanced context where participants interacted with the product using the designed 
AR experience. Experimental results revealed that AR improved brand recall and recognition by creating an engaging 
environment. Moreover, participants in the AR context recalled additional information about the product. 
Also, the AR experience motivated them to participate in an omnichannel activity based on a QR interaction. 
These results show the influence of well-designed AR experiences on brand recall and recognition opening the 
possibility for new technology in retail environments.

Check out the [proceeding](https://doi.org/10.1145/3411763.3451792){:target="_blank"} 