---
title: "Presumptive Diagnosis of Cutaneous Leishmaniasis"
date: 2021-05-11T12:34:30-05:00
header:
   teaser: /assets/images/retail.jpg
categories:
- System Development 
  
tags:
- Skin Quality Perception
- Technology in Retail
---

Introduction: Cutaneous Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by a parasite. 
The most common presumptive diagnostic tool for this disease is the visual examination of the 
associated skin lesions by medical experts. Here, a mobile application was developed to aid this 
pre-diagnosis using an automatic image recognition software based on a convolutional neural network model.

Material and Methods: A total of 2022 images of cutaneous diseases taken from 2012 to 2018 were used for training. 
Then, in 2019, machine learning techniques were tested to develop an automatic classification model. 
Also, a mobile application was developed and tested against specialized human experts to compare its performance.

Results: Transfer learning using the VGG19 model resulted in a 93% accuracy of the classification model. 
Moreover, on average, the automatic model performance on a randomly selected skin image sample revealed 
a 99% accuracy while, the ensemble prediction of seven human medical expert’s accuracy was 83%.

Conclusion: Mobile skin monitoring applications are crucial developments for democratizing health access, 
especially for neglected tropical diseases. Our results revealed that the image recognition software 
outperforms human medical experts and can alert possible patients. Future developments of the mobile 
application will focus on health monitoring of Cutaneous Leishmaniasis patients via community leaders 
and aiming at the promotion of treatment adherence.

Check out the [paper](http://ijmi.ir/index.php/IJMI/article/view/278){:target="_blank"} 